Let's redo all our logic in C ++. To do this, we will need to create a C ++ widget class.
And change the parent blueprint class of the asset not to it. Go to the UI directory.
Find the UserWidget class in the list.
We call our C ++ class STUPlayerHUDWidget. Click create class.
Open the header file of the widget class we created. We create a public section.
We will need a function that will be available in the blueprint and will return the current percentage of life.
The return type is float, we call the GetHealthPercent function.
We specify the const specifier and go to the .cpp file.
We need a header file for the lives component. Let's connect it. We create a local variable
that will store a pointer to our player. The function that returns a pointer
to pawn in widgets is called the same as in blueprints - GetOwningPlayerPawn.
If the pointer is invalid, then we can simply return a zero value for the percentage.
Next, we need to get a pointer to our component. To do this, we create a local variable Component.
Let's use the GetComponentByClass function of actors.
As a parameter, this function takes the SubClass of the component we want to find.
Our HealthComponent only has a C ++ version, so we can use the StaticClass function.
By analogy, as we did with you when setting up game mode. The GetComponentByClass function returns a
pointer to the UActorComponent, so we need to cast our Component pointer
to the health component. We create an additional variable HealthComponent.
And we cast to the HealthComponent type. We can not check the Component pointer against nullptr, because the Cast <> template function
already has this check. Roughly speaking, Cast of a null pointer returns a null pointer.
And now the HealthComponent needs to be checked and we also return zero percent, the pointer to the component is zero.
And if the pointer to the component is not nullptr, then we return the value of its GetHealthPercent function.
Let's also write the creation of the widget in C ++. To do this, go to the game HUD.
Create a protected section, create a property that will store the PlayerHUD class.
Let's use the template we know - TSubclassOf.
Let's pass the base UserWidget class as a parameter (let all widgets be available).
Although in general it is possible to pass our concrete class as well.
We name the property - PlayerHUDWidgetClass.
And add the BeginPlay function, in which our PlayerHUDWidget will be created.
We create the body of the BeginPlay function. We include the header file where the base widget class is located.
It is located at Blueprint / UserWidget.h
Add a call to the basic BeginPlay function.
We create a local pointer PlayerHUDWidget.
And we call the function, which is also defined in the UserWidget header file.
It is called CreateWidget. This is a templated function that takes a widget type as a parameter.
We'll specify a basic UserWidget.
The first parameter is a pointer to the owner object, you can pass this, you can pass GetWorld.
The second is the widget class that we want to create directly. If the widget has been created,
that is, the PlayerWidget pointer is valid, then we need to call the AddToViewport widget function.
In general, all the logic that we wrote in blueprints is one-to-one the same as the logic in C ++.
Even the function names are the same. Also, the AddToViewport function has a Z-Order parameter,
which is responsible for the rendering order of the widget. Since we have one widget, we don't care about this parameter. Let it be the default 0.
Open the asset of our widget. Let's change the parent of this widget.
This is done in the file -> reparent blueprint menu. Select STUPlayerHUDWidget from the list.
And if to the right side of the editor, we will see that the parent class has changed.
We delete all nodes from the graph.
And add a call to the GetHealthPercent function. All the logic and capabilities of our widget
will be hidden in C ++, and in the UMG editor we will decorate our widget from a design point of view.
We also go to the HUD class, remove everything from the BeginPlay. Click on the class defaults button.
And in the details panel, we set the class of our widget.
Compile.
We start the game.
Nothing has changed from the point of view of the program's operation, but all the logic has moved to C ++.
The interface is created dynamically. This is quite convenient. Designers can work
independently on different versions of the user interface, that is, for example,
change the fill color of a progressbar. And all we need to do to check is go
to the HUD class and change the widget to another. And our user interface will be updated.